[Music]
The audience listens attentively. The Venerable Master asks: When
we walk, we focus our
attention on our own feet,
not on the outside.
Have we achieved anything like that yet?
[Music]
When we focus on ourselves and not on the
outside, do we find we
experience more tranquility?
Tranquility arises when we pay
attention to our own actions, not to the
actions of others. Tranquility begins to appear when
we clearly see and know, as the master
explains, like the surface of a lake, when it is still, you
can see the stones
underneath. Every day we walk, but we
don't realize we are walking; our feet are walking,
and our minds are thinking about other things,
so we don't experience a Moment of
Tranquility. So now, let's
learn how to walk in meditation so that we can walk
but remain in tranquility. Is that
clear, everyone? For those whose minds are still wandering, let's
now focus our minds
deeply on our right foot, extending it forward.
When will that be the case?  When our right foot is
visible in front of us, we
must say it's the right foot. When it touches
the ground, we say it touches. Mindful contemplation,
step forward. Right
touches,
left
touches, right touches, left touches, right touches, left touches, right touches, left touches, right touches, left touches, right
touches. That is, when our foot
reaches this point, we know it
's the left foot, so we read it from the left.
We need to read it again. Let's try raising
our foot. We just need to step forward,
not walk. Look
here, this is called the right foot. Pull the foot back, then bring the
foot out again, bring the right foot out.
Understood? We shouldn't
read from the moment we start bringing it out until it's standing in
front of us. Even if you
bring the right foot out and
lower it,
you see? No need to step
over. Pull the foot back,
bring the
right foot out and lower it. Understood?
Then bring the right foot out
again,
lower it,
then bring the foot back
to balance, relax your body,
bring the right foot forward.
You see this is the right foot. We say "right foot," lower the foot, and when it
touches the ground, the
instep,
bring the right foot forward again,
lower the weight.  Let's
go, and let's just follow our feet. After walking for
a while, we'll find that our
minds are completely focused, not paying attention to anything
outside. Then we'll discover the
stillness within our hearts. The greatest
stillness in Buddhism is seeing and knowing everything clearly.
If we are silent but don't see or
know anything, that's not what we call
stillness in Buddhism. So,
in Buddhism, it's called "
constantly knowing," meaning knowing everything. Do you understand
this?
In Buddhism, movement and stillness are
n't about actions; the mind clearly knowing everything is
called stillness. Do you understand?
If our mind only knows one thing, it's
still called movement. Do you understand?
Knowing everything is called stillness. But that
's the result of practice. Now, let's look at the
overall picture. Do you understand? But we
must know what the result of practice is: the
mind knows everything,
not knowing anything. Knowing everything
clearly is called stillness.
Do you understand? Knowing everything but not
following anything is called stillness,
but our mind only needs to follow one thing.  That's what
we call mass movement, understood?
You know everything, for example, you know everything, you
know what everyone around you is doing, you know what's happening, you know it's just awareness.
But when
we focus on this, our mind
is moving, only following one thing, moving
within something else. But when we are
completely focused, we
call that mass stillness. Therefore,
we must keep moving so that
we don't get distracted by external things.
We stay in our own footsteps.
Later, we will
feel light and comfortable. In the
Dharma-discrimination factor, that's called lightness and
peace. That is, when we reach a
certain point and focus, joy arises,
then lightness and peace arise. So
we keep moving without being
distracted by external things. But that's just the theory of
mass movement, understood? The practice is still a
long way off. But that's the
theory, and we know that
theory, and when we reach that point and achieve that, then
we can
say we've practiced
this theory.  Do you understand? Because
if we don't know
what the outcome will be,
we won't try, and if we don't
try, we won't experience
it. Do you understand, everyone?
[music]